---
permalink: /projects
title: "Projects"
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /project
---

{% include base_path %}


Unveiling Diverse Clinical Symptom Patterns and Neural Activity Profiles in Major Depressive Disorder Subtypes
======
The heterogeneity of major depressive disorder (MDD) significantly hinders its diagnosis, effective clinical management, as well as patient-centered recovery paths. Numerous studies have attempted to uncover the heterogeneity of MDD using data-driven approaches to classify MDD biotypes based on various information, including symptomatology, medication response and multi-level biomarkers. Despite these findings hold promise in terms of clinical value, the clinical translation remains challenging due to rich biological information is often difficult to obtain in clinical practice and may not be feasible for accurately distinguishing subtypes at the individual level. As a result,  clinicians may not be able to directly benefit from the findings of MDD biotypes in their practice, leaving ongoing challenges in fully unveiling heterogeneity of MDD and its clinical translation.

The current project provided a person-centered method to identify MDD subtypes at the individual level based on standard DSM depressive symptoms. Using this method, five subtypes with unique symptom patterns were identified, and the existence and validity of these identified MDD subtypes were verified at both symptomatology and neurophysiology levels. Notably, the reproducibility of the classification was also confirmed in an independent dataset, demonstrating good generalizability. The added value of this study includes contributing to the literature of the identified subtypes with distinct symptom patterns and their unique associated neural activity alterations, and its incremental value to clinical translation. This classification model driven by more accessible standard DSM depressive symptoms is easier to apply in clinical settings and therefore has a higher potential for clinical translation, helping to achieve more precise and personalized treatments.  By utilizing accessible standard DSM depressive symptoms combined with the model generated by the current study, clinicians can more effectively identify patient subtypes and provide targeted and specialized treatments focusing on relevant therapeutic targets based on the neuroimaging characteristics of each subtype, thereby helping to yield optimal treatment outcomes.

